# CBE 512 Repository
This repository is a companion for the course "CBE 512: Machine Learning in Chemical Science and Engineering" at Princeton University. 

For my purposes as a student in this course, I am using this repository as a way to display my work in coding assignments and demonstrating
my experience leveraging Python machine learning libraries such as tensorflow, keras, scikit-learn, and scipy while also applying them 
to chemical and biological research contexts by using libraries such as RDkit and Biopython. 

In the completed_assignments directory, I have assignments where I worked with Python to implement aspects of a machine learning workflow, such as methods of preprocessing data, data visualization, data featurization (specifically molecular featurization into feature vectors and fingerprint formats), regression and classification algorithms including Random Forest algorithms; Logistic Regressions; and Support Vector Machines, implementations of neural network architectures using Keras and Tensorflow, and unsupervised learning methods such as dimensionality reduction and clustering. 

In the final_project directory, I have written code to analyze the PDBbind+ database. This database contains a plethora of proteins, and a binding ligand for each protein. My intention for this project was to analyze the proteins and ligands in the database to glean some insights on structural similarities between them.
I began by analyzing structural and physicochemical features of each ligand as well as each protein pocket sequence in the database. As an unsupervised learning aspect of the project, I aimed to dimensionally reduce and cluster all of the ligand data points to draw structural connections between the ligands. I did the same with the protein pockets. Then, I compared the pairwise similarities between ligands and protein pockets. To tackle supervised learning, I decided to use the features extracted from the ligand and protein pockets to predict the binding affinity between the two. I first looked into using a neural network architecture, where I would have two separate networks, one for ligands and one for protein pockets, and then have them converge into one network to predict the binding affinity. I also looked into using a Random Forest model to predict the binding affinity. 
